[Music]  what would you in the audience say  if i now reveal to you  that the budget  for this youtube channel  is 1.5  million dollars per year i was like oh  yeah yeah i actually i haven't it hasn't  come up before whoops it slipped my mind  actually  actually i get more than one million  dollars a year  in donations any of you would be within  your rights to ask and say well  where did these donations come from  and  where are they going you know what do  you what you know what  how how much did that plate cost what  what are the costs well how much did  this camera cost how much did that  banana bread cost you've been burning  through a million dollars a year with  this this uh  vegan politics thing really really  what if i told you  it was 15  million dollars a year now some of you  some of you might have the very generous  attitude hey i don't care if it's 1.5  million and i don't care if it's 15  million this this this boy is our this  guy he's a good guy he earned that money  i'm not even gonna question it it's all  for the best it's all for whatever input  output we're not gonna measure  throughput you know what i mean he's a  good guy i trust him whatever he's doing  to get that money whenever he does with  him just let him let him do his thing  farm animal sanctuary  have you heard of  farm animal sanctuary  total revenue 2019  listed with the government as form 990  14.18  million dollars over 14  million dollars of that  12.5  million dollars in  contributions  donations now i am not going to sit here  and tell you  that farm animal sanctuary does  nothing for the future of the vegan  movement i am not going to sit here and  tell you farm animal sanctuary is  accomplishing nothing that they have  accomplished nothing that they will  accomplish nothing i am saying if you  think about  how much they've accomplished  as output  and then you think about  14 million dollars  in input  were led to some sobering  reflections  some terrifying philosophical questions  about the past present and future of the  vegan movement now if you've read the  title of this video you can see i'm  questioning  brian turner i'm questioning james aspie  i'm gonna say sincerely  i think if you gave brian turner 14  million dollars to do figure i think  he'd make better use of it i think brian  turner is a hard-working guy i do i  think he's got aspirations jesus i i'm  not  what would brian turner do sorry this  isn't 14 this isn't a one-time thing  this is per annum in one year this is  how much revenue they had  so i'm sorry it's not exactly the same  every year they can make more money one  year less when the other especially you  know the last couple of years business  as usual has been about you know  but  year after year you can tally this up in  just  one year  14.2 million  in total revenue  12.5 million of that  donations  what would brian turner do  to change the world with  12 and a half million dollars per year  what would you do  what would i do  now i mean i don't have to calibrate  this i mean how much of a difference has  my youtube channel made for the past  present and future of the vegan movement  i think it's been really significant i  do actually and i think if you compare  what i've accomplished  on youtube in broadcasting and talking  and in listening in uh this peculiar era  of social media you know if you compare  what i accomplished to what gary  francione accomplished with what gary  yourofsky accomplished you can calibrate  it i mean i'm not saying i've  accomplished more than those people but  you can look at and say well  how many millions of dollars were put in  and what kind of political change came  out of it what was going on  you can calibrate you can ask some of  these questions  uh  here's the thing  i'm not encouraging you to think of this  as your money  and i'm not claiming it's my money  if you imagine  globally  how much money is going into supporting  vegan activism of any kind  vegan initiatives in the broadest sense  the total  global budget  per annum  to pursue this future of a better planet  of a vegan world all right  some of that money  is going to james aspie  right  some of that money is going to brian  turner i don't know how much all right  but like i'm doing this to calibrate the  discussion of the video  i am not saying what james aspie did was  a scam and i am not saying what brian  turner did was again i'm not  i'm saying it's a bad use of money i'm  saying it's a bad use of talent it's a  bad use of time it's a bad use of  resources it's a bad use of your labor  it's bad use of your imagination okay  but however much or however little money  james aspie has taken up and brian  turner has taken up and i've talked  before about the budget for direct  action everywhere and for uh anonymous  for the voiceless okay  those those budgets be they big or be  they small they are very much part of  the same grand total  with this 14  million dollars  farm animal sanctuary right there are  only so many millions of dollars there  are only so many talented hard-working  people with only so many hours to go  into this movement  it is in that sense that i'm saying to  you  this is your money  this is your movement  right and it's my money too right  because that's the money we have to  allocate i can't say it's the money we  have to share within the movement right  and there are only so many talented  hard-working people  if if talented hard-working people are  spending their time standing on a  sidewalk wearing a mask  silently holding up a placard selling  homes part of my concern is yeah it is a  waste of money and i've talked in the  past about just how much the budget is  just how many donations are going to  that organization anonymous to the  voiceless right but the other problem is  whether this person is a poet a painter  an architect a bike courier a musician  this person has some talent some  capacity to do something positive for  the future of the movement and it isn't  standing in silence we're squandering  time we're squandering talent and yes  yes y'all we're squandering money now i  want to be clear  14.2 million dollars that went to farm  animal sanctuary i'm not saying it's a  scam  i'm saying it's a waste  i'm not saying the money is being stolen  all right i'm saying it's being  squandered  all right  you  [ __ ] tell me  what difference farm animal sanctuary  has made in the world what difference  it's made for the vegan movement and  what difference it has made in your life  you matter too  you're part of this test you'll see why  i'm emphasizing that what impact has it  had on you  with 14  million dollars you know let's let's  step down and scale here so by the way i  might as well i might as well provide  receipts as people say there's a link i  am there's no point that'll just link  you to  form 990 showing you the reported  revenue for the year 2019 it's easy easy  enough for me to share if in case you  think i'm i'm not reading the exact  figure  as it's as it's as it's provided to me i  am  okay  there is a different organization with a  very similar name  to my knowledge there's no connection  between them but if there is it's  informal but there are two different  vegan organizations with very  similar names so i was talking about  farm animal sanctuary i am now going to  talk about the farm animal rights  movement  and it is sometimes just referred to as  farm or they use initials f dot a dot r  dot m  farm  animal rights movement now i can't send  links for all this stuff  i got a screenshot here  of their announcement  of their 40th  animal rights conference  they call this  the animal rights national conference  was anybody in this audience there  did any of you attend were any of you  invited did any of you receive one email  did you receive one facebook message to  someone saying hey you know what i went  to this really great vegan event this  year  it's been happening every year  for 40 years  and i've got if anyone if you can tell  me you can you know you can send me an  email later saying yeah you went to the  event that's great and i'm happy for you  i'm not saying nobody went to this event  i am seeing  shockingly few people went to this event  and we have to calibrate the claim if i  with my zero budget  hold  an animal rights conference which i've  tried to do in the past by the way i  invited people to give papers we're  gonna do it in vancouver vancouver  canada vancouver was in the past a major  crossroads okay so i would be doing that  with what five thousand dollars  one thousand dollars rent a room  try to get people together try to have a  discussion try to put on youtube and  look i mean let's be let's be modest  let's be realistic how many people would  attend  how many people would watch the video if  i got people together minimum 500 people  would watch that youtube video possibly  2 000 people depends on how intelligent  the conversation was how well edited it  is but you guys know i mean  the total viewing public for in-depth  discussions about vegan politics is  limited but i have certainly plumbed the  depths of that bubble i've earned a  certain level of respect and a certain  level of notoriety you know within the  few thousand people who speak english  who are interested in that okay  five months ago  farm animal rights movement post this  video reflecting on  40 years  of the animal rights national conference  it has 39 views  39 views on youtube  okay  this is how i know  you weren't there this is how i know you  didn't receive an email from a friend  yours who was there right again i wasn't  invited  go ahead ask you i'm not on a crazy ego  trip do you really think do you really  think there's a long list of better  speakers  than this  to invite to your [ __ ] animal rights  national conference really  go ahead and make a list okay there's me  there's james aspie there's brian turner  and i'm not even against those guys we  could all be on the same [ __ ] stage  together i can do a push-up contest with  [ __ ] brian turner for all i care to  save the animals i don't even  do a push-up contest with brian turner  against global warming i could do a  [ __ ] boxing match with brian turner  and james aspie at the same time like  you know i don't really care i'm  assuming this is something  philosophically substantive and  politically important we're talking  about but even if this is just a crazy  person okay you know make a list how  many really great speakers were there to  invite over the last 40 years over the  last eight years that i've been on  youtube i've never been invited once  right if if you guys if there hadn't  been any talk any positive impetus  behind this just  from the people who attended it and  participated  sending a facebook message to their own  friends and family and saying hey look i  attended in person this really great  lecture this really great event  and yo you gotta see it it's  you have more than 39 views  on youtube just from that alone and in  this case i'm going to get to the budget  we're talking about a multi-million  dollar  foundation  that has been doing this for 40 years  and you don't have 40 people  who are interested in what the [ __ ] you  have to say  all right so yes  you know i am raising questions here  about james asking a hammer raising  questions here about brian turner i am  raising questions about the way greed  is being pondered to in you know  propping up and promoting  vegan political activism they're they're  important questions we're gonna get that  but let's contextualize this how much  money has has brian turner [ __ ] up  i've used the broadest  how much money in the game what  percentage of the pie we think about all  the millions of dollars going into being  actors what percentage of the money has  james assby [ __ ] up  i cannot imagine they're in the ballpark  of 14 million dollars i would be  surprised if they're in the ballpark of  one million dollars like it's it's  probably a really small amount of money  and there is this sense in which i'm  saying to you this is your money too  this is your generation and this is our  opportunity to yes yes y'all save the  planet  have our decisive influence on the  trajectory of global warming have our  decisive influence on the suffering and  needless death of  millions if not billions of animals blah  blah blah i don't have to go over the  basics with you guys right okay and that  opportunity is being squandered  who is it being squandered by yes james  aspie the squadron's opportunities you  made terrible decisions we're going to  talk about this yes brian turner has  made terrible decisions it discredits  him and described it's big there are  problems here discrediting okay  but on a much larger scale  farm animal sanctuary is the problem  okay farm animal rights movement is the  problem and you guys know me if this is  the first video you've ever [ __ ] seen  on my channel you at least get the sense  i'm kind of passionate about this i'm  kind of highly motivated and i would  grant that to brian turner too and i  would grant that to james asked me to i  think they're passionate highly  motivated people okay what the [ __ ] do  you think i do with 14 million dollars  you think you wouldn't have heard about  it  you think millions of dollars would get  funneled through this channel and  there'd just be no outcomes to show  there'd be no like  what really think about it even if  you've never met me before this is the  first time you've heard my voice and  some of you now you've heard me for  eight years so you you know what i don't  know what kind of thing i do with the  money i don't have to digress into a  whole bunch of examples here but you  know in the past i've talked about  uh trying to make an illustrated  children's story book well if you have a  bigger budget that can be an illustrated  cartoon it can be a cartoon on netflix  you can have a video game that's linked  to the storybook and link to the cartoon  you can make a you know kind of  educational video game whatever you want  to say if you're going with some  redeeming qualities you can put together  a package it's going to have an impact  and you'd [ __ ] hear about it there'd  be someone sending you a link on  facebook or an email or whatever you use  an instagram dm saying oh hey did you  hear about this crazy vegan guy he made  this cartoon and a storybook and this  video game and you know did you hear  this and you'd say like yeah yeah i  already heard yeah you're the tenth  person to tell me but you have some for  14 million oh yeah you know what let's  go into animation let's go into an  animation studio and say  we're trying to make this work  with about 12.5 million per year  sinking but that's our sinking budget  for the but yeah we've got 12.5 million  this year and then we're gonna have to  wait a whole [ __ ] year before we have  another 12.5 million us dollars  okay if right now you go to the youtube  channel of farm animal rights movement  again not to be confused  farm animal sanctuary okay  they have a video up from two months ago  it's an hour long  it has 21 views  okay they have a video up from three  months ago it's 52 minutes long  30 views  okay so  i gotta get the to the money now all  right the most recent budget i have  for that same conference so i can't say  they spend the same amount of money  every year maybe some years they have a  bigger conference maybe small maybe the  budget okay but the budget they reported  for the year 2018  for that conference was 338  477 us dollars i'll just type that out  so  you  spent three hundred and thirty eight  thousand  four hundred and seventy seven dollars  on that conference  again  from year to year maybe it's more maybe  less you've done it for 40 years  and these are the outcomes we're talking  about i'm gonna be honest with you so  i've been rolling heavy with the vegan  movement about eight years you guys can  figure out okay i might say rolling  heavy i mean like every day having email  with people or instagram messages people  just connected to and talking to people  sometimes  whatever you know skype you know making  youtube videos like there was a time  when i was strictly vegetarian before i  came vegan and there was this time when  i became vegan but i wasn't really on  the internet yet  okay but at least eight years  i've been rolling heavy in veganism  nobody has ever  once mentioned to me this conference not  by email not by nothing i've never heard  it mentioned i've never heard anyone say  to me they went there or that a friend  of  nothing i've never seen like i've never  seen any acknowledgement of its  existence not even a blip on the radar  so now i'm to be clear i'm not saying  it's a scam  i'm not saying it's theft i'm not saying  the money is being stolen  how the [ __ ] do you spend  more than 300 000 us dollars  on a conference  that has no impact no ripples it's such  a total failure year after year after  year  that like it's hard to even find  evidence substantiating that it ever  existed  okay now you know  if you were into  little league sports you were into small  local sports like let's say soccer  and then someone tells you oh but  haven't you heard of this whole other  soccer league that is a multi-million  dollar per year budget and you know  they spend three hundred thousand  dollars just organizing one game just  one match i assume it lasts one day i  don't know i don't know if it lasts for  several days they're not alone their  conferences but like okay there's this  one event and you say what how is that  possible for all these years i've been  involved with organized little league  sports i've been involved with  organizing and following and being a fan  of and being a coach so you also coach  the sport uh small league soccer  and now  how is it possible  all right i'm not saying it's a scam  i'm saying this is a kind of failure  that really matters and [ __ ]  everybody's ignoring it  i can say to you now also in the  audience  do you know of a single youtube channel  other than a balacial that has ever  discussed this you know maybe you do  that's great  james askme doesn't talk about it  oh brian turner doesn't talk about it  like  there's a really strange lack of candor  about this i mean one of the only  examples i can think of is when joey  carbstrong got got cornered on the  question of the funding going to uh  anonymous for the voiceless that was a  big controversy he and he didn't want to  talk when he said on camera i really  don't want to talk about this but  this is this controversy involving more  than a million dollars and blah blah  blah he got into the budget so that was  one of the rare circumstances where a  personality conflict basically  uh dragged out into the light dragged  out into public view some of the talk  about money that's going on behind the  scenes okay so very briefly farm animal  rights movement  for the year 2017  1.8 million dollars in revenue precise  figure 1 million 794  702 us dollars  okay so let's let's round off 2017  1.8 million  the year 2016  1.8 million the year 2015  1.35 million  okay 2014  1.2 million  revenue it's money coming in it's not  stat it's not a savings account with  money they're maintaining  more than a million dollars a year  coming in  year after year after year  i'm asking you  where does the money [ __ ] go  and what so i'm going to say i'm going  to say it disappears  without accomplishing anything  i'm not saying it's stolen  i'm not saying i'm not saying it's a  fraud i'm not saying it's a scam i'm  saying it's a failure like but a failure  of a type that's it's the enormity of  the failure the depth of the  the the holoness of the enterprise of  vegan activism it's just unfathomable  that this money disappears and we have  nothing we can point to nothing we can  we can show for it right that's the  that's the context uh for this  discussion now you can go to again i'll  just provide a link i think if you click  through here you can get  as many details as they're publicly  available  um this is the american government irs  form 990.  and okay well maybe this is the better  like to give  so this is their uh okay this is their  uh formula 990 return for the most  recent year on their own on their own  website so you can go through there you  can look at  revenue you will see in this year the  amount of money they're making dropped i  assume due to global  [Music]  global global economic uh issues but  they're reporting here prior year 1.4  million dollars in contributions and  grants  so that's a lot of money and then they  say current year  uh 570 000  now if you had that kind of money  what would you do if i had that kind of  money if i had 10 of that money what do  you think  i would do with it and let's be real  most of what you have seen going on  on social media including james aspie  including  it's a competition for those millions of  dollars it's people putting themselves  forward and saying me me me i should be  the one  to get a million dollars i should be the  one to get the donations i should be the  one to get the trust and to some extent  it's a competition for talent i should  be the one to get the volunteers or  other  or other support okay  now  that ain't new  i think what's new is precisely what ice  poseidon james aspie and uh third guy  [Laughter]  that's why i have melissa here thank you  my sweet  james aspy and brian turner are bringing  the equation so guys welcome to the show  if you have a moment hit thumbs up it  helps more people discover the  conversation while it's happening i i  promoted this one so far in advance that  probably some people have forgotten it's  happening today i could i can post it  again instagram let people know where  you're doing it if you hit thumbs up it  helps more people discover the live  stream while it's happening and also  later when it's when it's archived but  if anyone has anything intelligent to  say uh i'm i'm happy to  you know let you join the conversation  at your and your comments criticisms  your perspective whatever  and you know  you're all involved  you're all implicated you know what i  mean like even if you've never donated  anything in charity and even if you've  never received any of this money from  anybody what i mean uh even if in that  sense you've had nothing to do with it  you know  we're all implicated and we're all i  mean  we're all dealing with the consequences  of what these foundations do with those  millions of dollars and we're all  dealing with the consequences of what  they don't do right  whether you're looking at someone like  aaron janus or you're looking at someone  like james aspie  like we're living with  the advantage they took  of  the opportunities offered to them in  life like you know even aaron janice  extraordinary opportunities and all  right the very few of us will ever have  right  and we're living with the consequences  of the opportunities they've squandered  right like what what they didn't make of  those opportunities  and indeed there are only so many  so many millions of dollars to go around  so again so i'm just showing you guys i  am reading your comments and i'm going  to hear what you have to say and respond  to it as you can see i i choose to pause  at different points if i'm in the middle  of saying something i'm not going to  interrupt myself in sense  uh junebug says quote money goes into  the animals and then they die plus  staffing  uh  um  but i'm i'm dubious even about that  right  like  um  well you know for example the second  example i gave uh farm animal rights  movement  more than three hundred thousand dollars  just on having a conference so what is  that i'm asking i do not know the answer  question this is just a speculation does  that mean first class hotel rooms for  100 people is that  is it  first-class airplane tickets for 100  people real question do they have even  100 people attending this because if so  they're not even getting the level of  social media react you'd get from 100  people sharing the link and saying hey i  had a first first class airplane ticket  and went to a conference center and so i  know  so  i'm just going to just going to post  that to instagram in case anyone's  forgotten um  you know so  you know  obviously i understand the kind of  generous assumption  that they are doing something good and  positive with the money like buying  bales of hay  to feed the cows or something  but it's actually not easy to make that  assumption not when you're dealing with  this these levels this scale of um  donation collection and what have you  now look just to be uh i don't know  just just to be provocative let me just  point out i'm doing a fundraiser right  now and i've received one thousand  dollars you get the exam sorry maybe  it's one thousand and thirty three  dollars but it's right now it's just  about one thousand dollars  i'm going to tell you guys exactly what  i did with the money like i'm gonna say  oh yeah i bought the air i'm gonna have  to pay for a hotel room and a taxi i the  airplane ticket alone could be more than  a thousand dollars in this case  that's about it uh i i wouldn't call it  a fundraiser but you know uh  when i  uh  when i asked sorry when i  gave  t-shirts to my viewers so i'm just  wondering what verb to use here i asked  them to pay the postage handling i said  look i'm going to print it for free like  the actual cost of the t-shirt and the  printing is going to be free but i want  you to donate money to cover the postage  handling and i photographed the receipt  i went to the post office i sent them  the t-shirts i photographed that's it so  they knew exactly how much they'd paid  and you know often there was a rounding  error involved like they'd send me 15  and the receipt is actually 14.76  because you know the mechanisms of these  things  and i could have lost money in that i  mean i think definitionally i did  overall  i'm just saying uh  you can do transparent accountable  fundraising at any scale  so i won't go on and on with these  examples my point here is not to have  many examples i think you guys see the  principle the thing and i've  communicated that you know passionately  enough  but um  so i'm just posting this to instagram  with a very simple uh statement right  now  there you go a rare moment of silence in  one of my lessons  normally i just give people the heads up  moments before going live but today you  guys had a whole day of advanced warning  and yeah  sadly i do think it's a really important  discussion for us to have  um  an important discussion for somebody  someone have  um  [Music]  someone says  the goals of vegans  do not necessarily align with the goals  of their funders  that's it's an interesting suggestion  but i'm sorry i'm getting overheated i'm  gonna have to take no no it's oh is it  on okay all right thanks man  uh  maybe i'll have to strip down to fewer  and fewer layers as the broadcast goes  on um  look the people who are donating money  to those two organizations i just named  what do you think they want what do you  think they're paying for i mean another  example that i've mentioned in the  channel in the past is the enormous  budget for dr greger's youtube channel  and people have donated millions of  dollars to this youtube channel where do  you think the money goes is that money  being used effectively obviously i think  it's a  you know  horrible waste of money i'm not alleging  a scam i'm not alleging fraud i'm just  saying really think about the millions  of dollars  going into this and then what outcome if  any you can show for it but um no i mean  i think people who donate money to dr  greger  the people who are the funders their  goals are exactly the same as dr burns i  think they know exactly what they're  paying for what they want him to do  they're donating millions of dollars i'm  just saying we have nothing to show for  it in terms of outcomes  you estimate what is the budget to do  what dr greger does i could do it for  ten dollars a month or something sort of  the cost is is nothing to get to to  download and read a pdf and then come on  camera and chit chat about uh medical  study it costs nothing and he's he's got  a budget in the millions per annum so  sorry in prior videos i've gone through  the actual filings of exactly how much  money he's collecting and spending i'm  not doing that in this video so i'll  just say if you want real figures that's  a speculative million dollars but you  can get the real the real numbers in  earlier videos have done or you can  again get  a form 990.  so no it's a totally well-intentioned uh  comment but when you look at farm animal  sanctuary or you look at farm animal  rights movement or you look at james  aspy  or you look at uh  brian turner i think people who support  them people to donate to them people who  are involved shall we stay in the  broader sense involve financially with  them i think there's there's no uh  disconnect between what the the donors  want and what what vegans want i i don't  think that's case at all  you know the question is what do you  want to do to get it  and you know  i i know obviously it's not one person  donating a million dollars but ask  yourself if you donated one million  dollars to dr greger do you think you're  getting your money's worth if you  donated more than hundred thousand  dollars for that one animal rights  conference  would you feel you were getting your  money's worth or would you feel you're  taking this money in  and flushing it down the toilet  and you know what were you hoping to be  the outcomes of supporting this movement  of this particular organization or this  or this particular event but no way  sorry i don't i don't think that's the  that's the issue um  so junebug says also there's no  consensus on what the actual future of  veganism will be  politically  right  but that's what makes it exciting  you know what i mean i'm sorry but  that's i mean i'm sorry that's molten  metal versus cold steel that's exactly  when people want to get involved let me  ask you something about are you really  tempted to get involved with irish  politics  oh really why  probably because you don't think you  make any [ __ ] difference in the  future of ireland you know this is not a  moment in history  this isn't sorry use your phrasing  this is a time in history when there is  a consensus  on the future of ireland  that consensus it's it's cold steel it's  not molten metal it's not being forged  it's not being reformed you know what  i'm saying and it'd be very hard to  budge people out of that consensus now  you can travel back in time there have  certainly been moments in history when  it was molten iron when it was was  really not clear what the future of  ireland was going to be and people were  fighting and dying over it right okay so  you have a consensus that's why irish  politics are boring ireland almost never  gets mentioned in the international news  if you don't live in ireland nobody  cares nobody pays attention now okay  you might be tempted instead what is the  future of libya going to be like their  what is the future of myanmar gonna be  right now that's molten iron right so  it's funny but i think you're  misperceiving strength as weakness and  weakness of strength here  there isn't a consensus about what  veganism should be or should represent  what the future move your what the  political significance of veganism right  and that's what makes it so exciting  that's why we should have a conference i  mean this this [ __ ] organization  they've had 40 conferences but there's  actually a lot to talk about it's a lot  to plan there's a lot to make happen  right like you know great you know so  what's up there's so much to say eight  years i've never run out of things to  say you know  now we don't have a lively ongoing uh  world of publications for veganism uh we  don't have a discourse even about how to  proceed in terms of activism we really  don't but we should um because in this  sense  you know in these debates and these  discussions they're still going to win  it's like that there's a sense in which  the  the definition of the future is still up  for for grabs as you say because there  isn't a consensus yet you know now is  the time when people should get involved  people should pour out their money and  people should pour in their  their talent their genius should pour in  their hard work uh precisely to give a  sense of of direction and purpose to the  movement now look i'm sorry again i  don't i'm not saying this to brag  when i first got involved in the vegan  movement it was completely routine  for vegans on the internet to include  palm oil  along with meat as something they  refused to eat as vegan that was  standard  and people were shocked and horrified  when i challenged them on this that no  ethically  there's no argument against vegans  eating palm oil and here's why now  i'm just being real with you  i don't know a single other person who  fought on that issue in the last eight  years and i know someone i i influenced  directly was joey carbstrong joe garcia  talked to me about it we spoke directly  about this because he said to me look i  know you've done videos about the palm  oil issue and he said vegans are still  coming at him and attacking him over  palm oil this way i think it was vegans  not meat eaters that his problem was  with so how do i approach this how do i  talk about it now look this is a  holotype this is one one example but  there aren't we're not talking about a  really huge ocean  we're talking about a small pond with  only so many fish in it and joey  carpstrom is a big fish so you know i do  think i was one of the few people who uh  significantly influenced the way vegans  think about and talk about  palm oil now  i'm not delegitimizing the issue like  i'm saying that's an example of there is  no consensus  it's molten iron  and i really challenged vegans and said  look are you against wood  right now this video is being challenged  it's being recorded on a wooden table do  you think wood is immoral because  cutting down trees it can kill an owl it  can kill it can habitat destruction can  kill innumerable animals there are  animals that live on the tree like is  that actually the argument you're making  here because  palm oil and the continuation of an  already existing palm oil plantation how  does that compare to a pearl farm are  pairs immoral because there could be a  jungle there could be an attack  ecosystem instead of a parafarm and you  know talking this through with people  i'm sorry this is not really an issue  where there are several equally valid  perspectives there's only one valid  perspective and it emerges inevitably  from people reflecting on it but you  know my point is you know you're right  there is no consensus  but that's not a weakness that's a  strength that's exactly why i've been so  passionate about what i've gotten  involved sorry so again i i could go on  and it's not the title of this video but  i think it probably is useful for you  guys to hear some of this  stuff you know um  the concept of animal rights itself  i have stridently and passionately  opposed what was the single most  influential  paradigm  for vegan activism  the so-called citizenship approach  the citizenship approach claimed that  rats  rats living in an urban area  have animal rights they're also very big  on claiming that household pets  like dogs and cats have animal rights  that's the so-called citizenship  approach so that was an academically  respectable well-funded  uh you know widely followed approach to  veganism and animal rights when i first  got involved in this and i came out and  said look this is all this is all  nonsense isn't it now okay obviously i  have a more sophisticated uh  you know critique of it than that but um  you know let me just ask do you want to  be a part of a movement do you want to  be a volunteer  do you want to participate and move and  pour your limited time and energy and  talent into a movement that goes around  saying to people like unironically  passionately sincerely that is going  around preaching to people that rats  have the same rights you do and that if  you discover a snake in your basement or  if you discover a bunch of rats living  in the basement of your own home it  should be a crime for you to kill those  rats that was the mainstream dominant  position in animal rights discourse  about eight years ago when i first got  involved okay so now look i don't want  to donate money to an organization says  that i don't want to volunteer for them  i don't want to work with them i am  vegan and i'm willing to say that is  insane and i'm willing to say that is so  insane  that  you know it discredits us like you're  dragging the name of veganism the mud  that's right again i can go with many  many examples but i mean obviously one  of the ones all of you were touched by i  mean i asked before so there was this  conference with hundreds of thousands of  dollars in the budget did it actually  touch you did it touch your lives anyway  well there was this conference in chiang  mai  2014 2015 2016. in chiang mai thailand  there was this this vegan event vegan  conference that touched us all organized  by frilly and durianrider now their  doctrine  for one thing  it included the claim  that garlic  is a neurotoxin that nobody should eat  garlic it was an anti-garlic vegan diet  now there are many many many absurdities  built into their their model of activism  and i made many videos addressing them  well again for for just a couple of  years like 2015 2016  maybe 2014 also that was the dominant  paradigm in vegan activism that was a  huge audience huge amount of money huge  amount of success  and on many different levels it was  absurd and the actual diet is  anti-scientific or pseudoscientific  there are you know the the i the  assumption that the way to promote  veganism is through diet and weight loss  and personal vanity and sexual  attraction so on there are many  assumptions built into it about how  they're going to change the world that  had to be challenged now again  um look can you name other channels that  did what i did i'm not saying there were  zero  but yes a battle of sale during these  eight years and guys i've looked at the  publications there's not a lot on paper  and it's really pathetic you know if you  look at magazines or journals academic  journals okay so on all of these issues  and about a hundred more  you know uh at a time when there was no  consensus of what the vegan movement  should be and what the future should be  about let's see how the youtube channel  with zero budget i mean i don't have a  multi-million dollar budget you can go  to patreon right now and see how many  hundred dollars i'm getting in donations  per month with a very very low budget  right i i waited on this and i i had my  influence on the past present future of  the movement  and yes that's all just possible because  we're talking about a stage where it's  it's molten metal it's molten iron it's  not cold steel yet  and i think that's this is this really  important process of separating sense  from nonsense and yes you're partly  challenging and debunking myths  and you're partly creating new myths you  know like i yes i'm interested in the  truth rather than mythology but i  understand that the truth in politics  uh to some extent you then need to  package and present that people in a in  fiction that's why i talk about creating  a children's storybook if you want to  get across the ethics and philosophy of  veganism a children's storybook an  animated movie you know there's a kind  of creation of new myths that comes out  of it but i mean you guys know this  anyone can say anything if they want me  to explain something further obviously  one of the greatest myths of all was the  idea that social progress would only be  achieved and could only be achieved  through quote unquote disruption  so direct action everywhere embrace that  extinction rebellion embrace that uh  anonymously voiceless embraces that so  the model of disruption and then there  are these really pseudo-scientific  claims drawing from social sciences not  medical sciences to try to to back that  up so again over the last eight years  who else do you know who's challenged  that i can't say i'm the only one but  i'm one of very few and i think i'm by  far the most influential one you know  and i by the way i tried to work with  the few other people who were  challenging that paradigm the few other  people who were challenging the  so-called effective activism paradigm  and the disruption paradigm and so on  um  but you know i i'm  not quite a solitary voice but i'm a  unique and uniquely influential voice on  that so now again my point is here  that was a myth  that was a myth about what the vegan  movement is and what it ought to be and  it was an attempt to create consensus  about the future of the vegan movement  and then ultimately an attempt to  solicit donations people to get their  share of those millions of dollars right  and obviously part of what i've been  doing is challenging that and sure i'm  i'm challenging it partly with a very  dry sense of the truth of what's merely  true but i also acknowledge you take  steps forward  that involve the creation of a new kind  of mythology in the pursuit of  new methods of of changing the world so  that's what's going on and i'm going to  be honest i can't believe more people  don't want to get involved you know i  just can't believe it i'm just  astonished at how little talent there is  in the game i'm just astonished at how  little  passion or vitality and louis say this  also you know like  i sympathize with people like brian  turner and i sympathize with  you know james aspie because they are  trying to change the world and they're  trying to do something new and different  like i can criticize it i can find  faults with it but i also i very  fundamentally sympathize with them and  even admire them  for  putting their neck on the line for  putting their real name on the internet  their real face  you know they're they're taking a risk  and they're making a commitment now i  can insert a lengthy criticism of both  of them  but there's a very fundamental sense  in which  you know i i don't just sympathize with  them i even have some admiration for  what they try to do  now  our position is in 2022 to step back  have some detachment look at what the  movement has done in the last five years  analytically and then talk about the  next five years and say we can't do this  [ __ ] again  now this is maybe the most flattering  um  intro i can give to the critique to what  these guys have been doing  financially lately shall we say  i think the most flattering thing i can  say is these are guys who were probably  frustrated  with what vegan activism is  or what it has become  um  and they're looking around saying  what's new what's different how can i  change the world now the answers they've  come up with i think are totally utterly  wrong and they're deeply  immoral but i relate to it someone like  james aspy very much lived through and  was very directly influenced by the rise  and fall of freelee the rise and fall of  during writer if you don't believe me  freely herself was personally  responsible for a lot of james aspey's  fame it's not the only source he also  did uh interviews with the news  in uh australia he did appear in  newspapers and he still does amazingly  his his latest involvement with  cryptocurrency which we're getting to  title this video  it was covered in mainstream newspapers  to my surprise so he he gained some  level of notoriety in the mission press  but there can be no doubt that freely  interviewing him and encouraging him was  part of his rise to fame  so he was someone who was influenced by  this short-lived period of lifestyle  activism the short-lived period that i  referred to as the permanent vacation  model of of vegan act okay and in some  ways james aspie is still on  permification  we've heard from his own mouth that what  he wants to do is present himself  as this kind of bruce wayne character so  if you don't know who bruce wayne is he  is a fictional multi-millionaire  now he tried to do this very briefly in  his most recent uh  venture  i didn't say scam  i said  venture  his most recent  venture  in cryptocurrency  with an organization called taco cat  okay so  with this very strange sense of  grandiosity he declared to the world  that he was going to have a live stream  once a week  every week  for six months  and every live stream he was supposedly  going to be giving away more and more  money to charity it started with five  thousand dollars for live streams so  five thousand dollars a week being given  a charity and then it was supposed to  increase  as this cryptocurrency taco cat became  more and more successful so we have  someone laughing in the audience uh  quote this is not financial advice well  look let me listen  this is financial advice  this whole video i'm not a coward this  is financial advice and the first piece  of financial advice i've given you is  don't donate money to farm animal  sanctuary don't donate money to  a farm animal rights movement don't  don't donate money to james asked me  this is this is financial advice you can  sue me if you think it's bad if later on  you think i'm giving you bad financial  advice go ahead and take me to court i'm  committed guys okay  um okay  so  this is the  the it's a fundamentally grandiose  delusion  now i'm not saying james aspie is poor  but i've never i mean he basically  hasn't had a job in many many years he's  been living on permanent vacation uh  with the freelancer writer model he's  been living off of um the revenues of  social media and donations from his  audience which is you know  uh entails its own problems that i've  discussed in other videos ethical  problems strategic problems political  problems  again not a scam but it's a problem  put it that way  um  [Music]  the theory or the assumption was  that this new cryptocurrency would be so  successful  so quickly that he was going to be able  to come on and do this weekly  live stream starting at five thousand  dollars given to charity and then week  after week this was gonna get more and  more as it was more successful  they made  two  live streams  they gave away five thousand dollars in  the first live stream  they gave away five thousand dollars in  the second live stream a week later  and then the third live stream was  canceled they promised or he promised  james aspie promised that we're going to  be back real soon it was going to resume  as soon as possible when the trading  volume for this  currency picked up  and it never happened  now  should i provide a link for this or not  the first venture  james askbe promoted this is now getting  very closely comparable to ice beside  him i have links in the description if  you don't know who is you don't know  what the uh  what the scandal is there  the first venture he was involved with  was called ewt so i guess i can  so this is energy web token  now i'm going to give you guys a link if  you don't believe me you can't visualize  it you can click on this link  and then you can look at how the price  of the energy web token has changed  in the last three months in the last six  months in the last year  now i'm not alleging that uh james aspie  has been involved in a scam i'm not and  i would not even allege that james aspie  has personal personally gotten rich off  of this i yeah the three-month chart is  harrowing to look at there for the value  of energy web  okay so james aspie agreed to  promote  this cryptocurrency to pump  this coin in the province over time he  did for a very short time and then he  stopped did he make money or did he lose  money i don't know  right now  if he's true to his word if he did what  he said we'd have to assume james aspie  lost his shirt that he lost a lot of  money there's no reason to think he made  money there's no reason to think he  scammed anyone in this sense there's no  reason to think he benefited he may well  have himself been duped or you know  talked himself into something  optimistically that wasn't remotely true  okay but then what did he do after that  he got involved with the second venture  tacocat i'm going to send you the link  to the current price of taco cat you can  look at the three-month chart you can  look at the six-month chart it's  horrifying to behold it's a red line  going down people okay  um  again  it's just mind-blowing to me that he did  this twice in succession  and  you know i don't know he didn't see  anything wrong with it so yeah click on  the there's a little button that says 3m  for the three-month chart and you have a  horrifying jagged red line going down  down down with no half with no hope of  it of it coming back no hope of it  of it improving and why would it improve  now look um  again  we know what james gaspi's fantasy was  about this we know what he was dreaming  about and to be fair i'm not just saying  this flare  he was dreaming about a new and  different and better way to change the  world he was dreaming about effective  activism he was dreaming that he would  become this multi-millionaire that he  would lead a crowd of grateful donors  who would join him and generously  support supporting these various  charities he had this whole elaborate  fantasy both about ewt  um  energy web token and about taco cat  what was the commitment  that he made to his audience and what  was it what was the commitment that he  broke there right now  ice poseidon is a very good comparison  for this  ice poseidon said to his audience that  he had a long-term commitment to  supporting a particular token it was  called cxcoin  to supporting a new cryptocurrency and  that cryptocurrency had a specific use  in mind that this cryptocurrency was  going to be used to allow viewers to  make donations to live streamers so this  is going to be  uniquely marketed or actually unique in  function a form of cryptocurrency used  on you know this way  no he is a live streamer he can accept  donations using this cryptocurrency  and he said again and again this wasn't  a short-term thing this wasn't going to  be a so-called pump and dump scam he  wasn't going to mislead people and that  he was really going to commit to  marketing and supporting this  cryptocurrency now if you don't know my  own analytical position on  cryptocurrency  my claim is not that it's impossible to  make money  trading cryptocurrency that would be  ridiculous my claim is that the  significance of cryptocurrency is  similar to collectible baseball cards or  comic books that we're talking about  something that has almost zero utility  value  it's desirable and it's valuable only  because people perceive it as being  valuable now again too clear that  doesn't mean it's evil that doesn't mean  you'll lose your money some people get  rich from baseball cards some people get  rich from comic books it's possible you  can run a comic book store you can be a  comic book collector it's possible  but you know  there's a new spider-man movie coming  out  that will actually increase the value of  certain collectibles like comic books  connected to the history of spider-man  a better example right now would be a  comic book character who hasn't had a  movie for a long time so the punisher  or moon knight these if you don't know  these are just complicated they're no  different from spider-man or superman or  batman okay so for a long time nobody  paid attention to moon night it wasn't  that successful wasn't that famous okay  if you have moon night comic books from  the 1970s and they're sitting in your  attic or a basement they're not worth  anything oh and then in the last couple  of years a bunch of interest in moon  night new comic books come out they  start making a movie uh you know i think  it's actually on disney plus so what i  want to say the 21st century equivalent  to a movie direct to direct download uh  cinema  they start making a kind of tv series  for  moon night  oh now those are worth more why  just because people perceive them  as having value it's not evil  but it's kind of dumb it's kind of  pointless right and  what if you want to read those comic  books well as you probably know you can  read them on the internet you don't even  need to have them on paper like it's not  really utility value there so  this is part of what makes the quote  unquote pump and dump phenomenon  interesting  why was ewt  valuable  well  the perception of it being valuable the  perception of it even being a morally  virtuous thing to invest in  was actively created by james  aspy and his friend randy they actively  promoted this and they gave this really  weird ecological and vegan argument for  why it be virtuous to invest in this why  make the world a better place that is  and it's completely legal there's  nothing illegal about this but that is  creating the value for this particular  type of cryptocurrency this obscure  cryptocurrency ewt and altcoin that's  creating the value in the same sense  that indirectly a new movie about moon  knight  creates value increases the value of an  old moon knight comic book from the  1970s that until recently might have  been worth five bucks you know it could  be in the bargain bin and then oh  everyone gets interested in collecting  moon knight in half and even just having  that on their wall that's what collects  up with having a wall book having a  comic book that hangs on the wall like a  like a portrait you know  and  you know so  there is no contract  there isn't an agreement between ice  poseidon and his audience that he is  going to create value basically through  marketing to make through making this  prominent through making this scene  desirable to invest in  and in a very limited sense desirable to  use like in the same way like why do you  use this comic book  well  there's a little bit of use there's not  a lot of utility there it's not really a  function for it's not like buying a car  why okay there's a good comparison why  is a car desirable well partly just  because the brand name is perceived as  desirable the style yes there are some  little elements of that but  predominantly a car is valuable because  it you can drive it places you can you  know  you can buy your groceries with it et  cetera et cetera  so the amounts the extent to which  something is desirable just due to  perception and cultural value as opposed  to some kind of actual utility some kind  of actual use right if you think of this  as two  two different levers or two different uh  ratings you know  um  what happened with ice poseidon and his  promotion of cx coin is unsurprisingly  as soon as he stopped promoting it  the value fell to almost zero well why  well cx coin is not batman and it's not  superman and it's not spider-man and  it's not even moon knight it's something  nobody had ever heard of and nobody  would care about if it weren't for ice  poseidon pumping it promoting it making  it seem  valuable and interesting but you're  really creating something new a new kind  of product  which again it doesn't really have any  function in your life but by investing  in it or attempting to use it you know  uh you're participating in this this  thing that your favorite streamer is  promoting now i just mentioned as a  footnote there was a marketing budget  for cxcoin ice poseidon was supposed to  recruit other live streamers other  internet personalities to also pump and  promote the coin reportedly that didn't  happen so either that happened to a much  lesser extent than was planned or hoped  for or it just didn't happen at all  after only a few weeks according to  besides he gave up he stopped promoting  this he stopped pumping it now again  this is why it's so closely comparable  to james asked me for how long was he  pumping  uh ewt before he just stopped and we  never got an explanation  this is the main thing i want to get  into with brian turner my second and  final example of this video  we never saw him just come on camera and  in an honest down-to-earth way say that  he lost his money say hey he invested  this  or maybe he'd say he was quitting he  took his money out he invested at this  point maybe he made a modest amount of  money like you know i don't know it's  sheer speculation because he's never  talked about it  now again in terms of the running joke  about this is not financial advice  how like  we don't have a contract for this we  don't have an obligation there's nothing  in our constitution saying that  maybe we should maybe we should pass a  new law pass a federal law  or pass a uh  you know past a article in the  constitution united states america if  you endorse an investment whether it be  a stock on the stock market or  cryptocurrency anything else you must  publicly state  this is how much money i put into it and  this is when and this is the price and  then this is when i got out like maybe  maybe there should be a not just a moral  obligation you but a strict legal  obligation to report publicly if you're  going to pump a stock if you're going to  pump a cryptocurrency even if you're  going to pump real estate if you're  going to come on here and say to people  hey you know what's a really great idea  swamp land in michigan  real estate values are going up swamp  land they got oh you think michigan  doesn't have swamp they got some real  nice freezing cold swamp in michigan and  house prices are cheap i've seen them  going up you know invest in real estate  michigan well maybe if you say that  maybe there should be a legal obligation  to disclose what you've done with your  own money and if you're responsible for  other people's money if you're managing  a fund what you're doing with their  money  just mention real briefly you know uh  there's this woman uh carrie wood  right a good name kathy kathy wood sorry  uh right anyway kathy wood this  investment guru and i think her advice  is laughably terrible again this is  investment advice i am telling you kathy  what is giving you benefits  trust me not kathy wood  but it's kind of hilarious to me no  matter how bad her advice is  no matter how how often she's wrong and  you in her case you can look up her uh  her etf you can look up her fund  and you can see the red line going down  there you can see how badly it's doing  and people still adore her people still  worship her advice and her opinion you  know it seems to never end people never  seem to shake out of this once they've  established this kind of trust with the  live stream or with the broadcast with  with broadcaster with whoever it is so  it can be very powerful these guru-like  relationships between financial expert  and audience financial analysts and  those who have their analysis done for  them  um okay a comment from do you want to  give me a kiss in the audience quote  there is another aspect of crypto's  popularity lack of trust in established  institutions such as banks central banks  and parliaments  uh  okay  um  so look i think this is this puts it  into a very palpable comparative context  so  if you are marketing cx coin that's the  cryptocurrency that was briefly promoted  by ice poseidon and where there's now  this kind of ethical and political  scandal about it okay  why  would it be more efficient  for me to donate money to a live  streamer or donate money to a youtuber  by taking money  converting it into cx coin converting it  into a cryptocurrency  sending the cryptocurrency and then at  the other end them converting it back  again  all right that's actually a very  difficult argument to make  that there's an increase in efficiency  or an increase in utility over using  cash if that's too hard for you to  visualize what if i announce a brand new  cryptocurrency called applecoin  i say hey aren't you tired of paying for  apples with cash aren't you tired with  paying app for apples with your credit  card well we created this great new  blockchain technology  it's going to allow you to take your  cash convert it into these digital  tokens  buy apples maybe order apples deliver  your door on the internet and then the  the farmer who grows the apples he  converts it  back into his local currency at the u.s  dollars or whatever it is  now  i'm not saying that's impossible  all right but like the margins you're  talking about the efficiency you have to  beat so by the way in case you guys  don't know this movie i pay child  support okay  sending child support money  internationally it's it's not free there  are inefficiencies in the system but i  was saying to melissa the other day look  this shows what a joke cryptocurrency is  it's not more efficient for me to pay  child support using bitcoin let alone an  obscure currency like cx coin or uh taco  cat  the reality is today  the technology does not work as a  service in that sense you're not  providing a service people that's really  useful  and look i just say if there are  exceptions to the rule i'm willing to  hear it like if someone can put together  a case  that you know oh no look it actually is  more effective to give tips to live  streamers using cx coin but  you know as far as i can see and if it  were actually more efficient to buy  apples this way  that'd be interesting here  uh it is not more efficient to for me to  send a ch okay compare sending a paper  check in the mail which is from currency  to currency  to the cost of doing that transaction  the cost and the difficulty in  cryptocurrency  right and by the way there's also  questions of security and reliability  and fraud there are other other  questions  you know built into that is it really  preferable for me to pay child support  with any of these new technologies now  reciprocal with this i've already  explained to you the sense in which  cryptocurrency is desirable it's like  collectible baseball cards it's like  comic books  now i i want to point this out  what if you buy  a set of the first 12 issues  of  what's the common character's name  moon moon night  what if you buy  the first 12 issues of moon night one  year run  today  you say you know what  this mazda guy gives me an idea  i'm gonna i'm gonna sell my car and i'm  gonna buy the first printing first  edition of moon knight that comic book  character is going places okay because  it's got a brand new tv show there's  hype right now now i don't think you can  get a chart for the value of this comic  book but theoretically right  okay  so maybe it's possible that you are  buying moon knight  when he's just at the beginning of his  fame increasing maybe after this  moon knight and then has an animated  series and moon knight has a video game  and moon knight mania takes over america  and people forget all about superman  batman goes out of style  and moon knight becomes the most  dominant cultural icon in the next 20  years and you made this investment now  you're sitting on a gold mine so you  bought it today  and the chart was going up and you got  in at the right time and then 10 years  from now you get to sell those comic  books and they're worth way more again  they don't produce anything it's not  like investing in a company it's not  like putting your money into apple  computer on the stock market where  you're  loaning money to a corporation that's  actually producing computers or  producing cars there's nothing  productive about it okay that's the bet  you made  you know what it's very likely that if  you buy  this set of 12 moon night comics from  the 1970s right now  it's very likely that right now moon  night is at its peak value the peak of  public interest and then after this it's  going to go down doesn't mean it's going  to drop suddenly  me it's probably going to stagnate you  know maybe moon night season 2 comes out  or moon night the big budget movie goes  oh yeah  yeah moon knight that's not new and  exciting anymore you know yeah right  it's just another noise in the cultural  cacophony you know what i'm saying  do you really think do you really think  the fame of bitcoin  in our culture in our economy the  desirability of bitcoin thought of this  way like a comic book  do you think that can increase  more than it did when elon musk first  tweeted about it you know when elon musk  tweeted about dogecoin and then there  was this explosion of interest in  dogecoin  you think that's going to happen again  is this going to happen on a bigger  scale do you think it's going to go up  how much how much greater can that level  of hype be  in a context where one by one people are  figuring out that these cryptocurrencies  they have either very very little  utility or or none at all  right again can you actually today  can you use cxcoin  to donate money to live streamers i'm  sorry i have read some articles about  this i looked it up there were bugs in  the programming  a lot of the cryptocurrencies have  problems security flaws one way or the  other uh so people don't like you know  they were getting false messages oh this  person donated fifty thousand dollars  but actually they donated uh one dollar  and they there was some hack some  exploit that lets them misrepresent that  is  you know there were these there were  problems there were bugs in the system  which i believe why to my knowledge  based on what he said himself that's why  ice poseidon lost interest and lost  patience with the product um lost  patience with the project i should say  you know and and moved on  um  okay this is my digression on  cryptocurrency here i'm talking about  the politics of these vegan leaders  pandering to the audience's greed you  know  and you know sorry i know pandering is a  bit of an overused uh word in english  okay freely and durianrider who very  much created the model for vegan  activism that both brian turner tried to  emulate and james asked me tried amen  right  they were pandering to your vanity and  i've known people who had the honesty to  say to me that that was what got them  hooked  i knew one guy in no offense he's a  dumpy middle-aged balding man i think  he's the same age i am but he looks 20  years older than i do i mean he's a real  unimpressive unsexy looking guy no  offense he's got a big gut and just just  he has a grandfatherly look to him he  could be santa claus or something but he  doesn't look youthful or vibrant or  athletic or sexy or anything  and he i remember he had the honesty to  say to me  that's what spoke to him the idea that  he could become  athletic that he could maybe not  recapture his youth i don't think he was  very fitness youth but that he could  transform himself into being someone who  ran around on the beach with his shirt  off  and felt proud of himself felt beautiful  and felt attractive to women  i do not know he did not say to me he  wanted to sleep with other women  he was a married guy but  i you know that obviously wouldn't take  a lot of imagination i think that's  that's part of it too so you know  freely and durianrider took it pretty  far  just appealing to vanity just pandering  to the audience's  vanity  all right  now  the paradigm i'm addressing in this  video this is instead pandering to the  audience's greed  and  it's interesting in james ashby's case  it's explicit it's saying don't you want  to be like bruce wayne  don't you want to be a millionaire  philanthropist who gets rich and makes  the world a better place and is even  morally superior to others  by getting involved with this  venture  you know  i think  okay let's let me mention a critic if  james asked me there was another youtube  channel called maggie sargent  and i've quoted her on the channel  before and at one point she said about  james asked me she said look  these people are already so insufferable  james aspie and other vegan activists  like him people on permissions but you  specifically talk about james asking  these people are so insufferable  living this life of reckless  self-indulgence opulence wealth i would  say permanent vacation but she said you  know they're filming themselves at the  beach and at a five-star hotel and  eating in these restaurants they're  showing off this life of opulence all  the time luxury  how much worse is it going to be if this  plan works how much worse is it going to  be if they really do become  multi-millionaires to this  cryptocurrency venture what if it works  out well then what then they're going to  be kind of rubbing our faces in how rich  they are and how leisured they are and  this again the quote-unquote lifestyle  activism supposedly exciting envy as  their incredibly indirect method of of  saving the world okay  interesting point  do you think james aspy ever  once  thought through what he would do if  instead he made these investments and he  lost all his money  i already sent you the links you can  click on the chart you can look at what  happened to the value of ewt you can  look at what happened to the value of  taco cat  now james asked me swore he was not  doing pump and dump we're going to come  back to this brian turner right well  we'll say just a second he swore he  wasn't just investing for a short time  in the now no  and thus he was encouraging you in the  audience to not just invest for a short  time now well if that's true  if he has held on to these investments  for just the last three months  he's lost a tremendous percentage of his  principle he's lost a tremendous  percentage of his investment there's not  one word out of him about this now i  would just like to suggest to you  if he had gotten rich don't you think  he'd [ __ ] tell you  what if he had doubled his money what if  he had quintupled his money what if he  had gone up by quote-unquote 10x he had  10 times the money  you don't think he'd be making instagram  posts and youtube videos jumping up and  down saying see i told you so i told you  to invest and i invested this time and  now look at all this money  right you don't think he'd still be  doing the the weekly live streams  boasting about how much money he's  donating to charity that week  week after week even if it's only five  thousand dollars five thousand dollars a  week  starts to add up he was supposed to do  that every week for six months  right like  the the grandiosity of this is  astonishing okay so it's speculation  speculatively maybe the reason he isn't  boasting about how much money he made  out of this is because either he didn't  make any money at all he made very  little money or maybe he actually lost  money in these ventures and again guys  if you don't believe me you can click on  those links you tell me how it would  have even been possible for him to make  a whole lot of money out of these are  these particular business now  brian turner  in some ways similar in some ways  different and i've made videos already  talking about brian turner so i can do  this quite briefly  you know  he swears passionately again and again  that he's in this long term not as a  short-term flip on the stock and  one of the sort of one of his big  investments is bitcoin so this is again  cryptocurrency but the other one is  virgin galactic right  so they have in common they both talk  about and they may be exaggerating for  dramatic they talk about the extent to  which they've taken their whole life  savings  and invested in this in uh james ashby's  case he uses that phrasing james aspie  talks about his life savings he talks  about selling his van which was his only  worldly possession to get more money he  sold his van that he invested his whole  life savings that he asked for donations  from the audience so that he can invest  more okay and again he wasn't in short  term he didn't just pump and dump  allegedly  so if that's true  right we should be hearing that james  aspie is now flat broke right just look  at the chart wow how  how would he have gained money out of  this venture if if that's true now if  it's not true that's also interesting if  he turns around and says oh that he  actually gained money because he only  invested for this really short time and  then he dumped you know he  he hyped it up and then dumped and then  with a second currency then with taco  get first legal team okay well that's  different  all right  brian turner it's it's parallel but  imperfectly parallel okay he swears to  you that uh the transaction the  investment he's making in  virgin galactic is not short-term it's  long-term he swears to you the  investment he's making in bitcoin is not  short-term long-term and he emphasizes  what a huge percentage of all of his  worldly wealth he's put into this and i  have heard him again it's kind of half  joking but he's talked about selling  everything else sell the car  i think he said something like sell the  car sell the cat like sell everything  you can so that he'd have more money to  invest in these things so i mean i know  he was joking around when he when he  made that i don't think he's actually  sold his car or i don't i could i could  tell from his tone of voice but he  talked about the possibility of selling  everything so he could invest as much as  possible because he believed so much in  these two  investments now  okay should i provide you guys the link  for this or not okay i guess i might as  well see as we're doing this here is the  value of the stock known as spce  um okay we'll use yahoo i guess you can  take a look at how that  again you can click on the six six month  line or three month line and see the  trajectory of that and uh i mean bitcoin  is the easiest statistic to get off the  internet  yeah yeah whose  interface is not terribly  aesthetically pleasing there you go  so you can take a look at the  value of bitcoin and you can take a look  at the value of  this particular stock virgin galactic  spc  and you tell me there are two  possibilities here one he lost a  tremendous amount of money he made the  wrong bet and and everyone in his  audience who took his advice everyone  who joined i mean with both these then  that's the further dimension same thing  with ice beside them right okay well  what about all the people you misled not  just with this advice  but with the commitment you made to  pumping and promoting this right like  okay because it's different kind of  thing on here as they say like creating  the value of a comic book  talking about these altcoins the whole  the what is the desirability of taco cat  why would anyone  want to invest in target why would  anyone have even heard of toggle gap  what is the desirability of ewt  right in this sense you know this is  this is different from uh  it's different from but it's parallel to  what brian turner was doing i mean  people would have already heard of  virgin galactic without brian turner but  still specific people took your advice  and made the commitment you were saying  by the dip when it was at its peak and  now it's crashed i made videos already  talking about that  why is it you know um  why is it you haven't come on and talked  about how you lost your own money it  seems to me there are two possibilities  one  they have lost a lot of money they're  ashamed and humiliated they're being  silent about it or two they didn't lose  money  and they're ashamed about that  because if they admit that they didn't  lose money it will reveal that they have  been dishonest in exactly the same way  that ice poseidon has been dishonest  okay so in that portion of the  conversation  i mean  look so guys i'm happy now is a good  time welcome to the audience down below  we're having her for you in ages good  good to see you now  uh  i can still bench press more than you  dom and it's because i do more push-ups  it's because i do more inclined push-ups  dom still and you've never shown up you  never showed up for that boxing match  dom  who would be tougher in a boxing match  don bauer james aspie or uh or brian  turner  i'll take you all on all at the same  time  anyway it's a good it's a good time for  you guys to to come and talk with us  look  i care a lot about economics i've cared  about economics since high school or  earlier but i really remember very  clearly caring about it a lot during my  high school years and i thought about  for years my own career being in  economics and majoring in university and  so on so forth  and  i have never bought a single stock in my  life but because i care so much about  politics i do follow the stock market i  think about the stock market with the  stock market and the thing is this  when i make predictions when i make  recommendations when i give financial  advice right i also reason through  what the rationale is on what basis am i  making this prediction so i'm going to  give you an example now something i just  said to melissa nobody else has ever  heard this a prediction i made that  turned out to be wrong  being wrong is different from being  stupid  being wrong is different from being  insane and being wrong is different from  being immoral too right like  it's not always because you're a bad  person that you're wrong  we have to ask this question now about  james aspie we have to ask this question  brian turner i think we have to ask this  about more and more leaders in the vegan  movement as lifestyle activism adapts  and things like cryptocurrency and  trading on the stock market becomes part  of the lifestyle that they're marketing  they're not the first not the last to do  this but  um  back when donald trump was president of  the united states  some of you aren't old enough to  remember  back when donald trump was president of  the united states  uh there's an enormous corporation in  saudi arabia called saudi aramco  and it was struggling to raise more  capital investment to have more people  invested and support the company now  there were reasons why they were  struggling the most obvious being the  ongoing war in yemen  so the whole economy of saudi arabia is  you know messed up and involved in that  war it's  it's  it's deleterious to their economic  situation you know  okay  so i look at that situation and i say to  melissa okay donald trump is president  united states  when before donald trump was elected he  promised that he was going to end the  alliance with the saudi arabians you  might not be old enough to remember that  once he was elected he completely  dropped that notion he did a 180 and  i'll always remember this his wording  about it was he said well the world  looks different once you're sitting in  the white house your view from the white  house is different he also hilariously  made the statement that the reason why  he likes the saudi arabians likes  working with the saudis uh is that  they pay in cash they spend millions of  dollars on american manufactured  hardware meaning military equipment and  they they pay and cash so donald trump  was completely open about the fact that  this was basically agreed and his  incredibly uh caveman-like approach to  foreign policy but yeah he promised he  was going to end this  special strategic relationship in the  united states and saudi arabia  and instead he uh he reversed policy on  that universe course okay  so i look at that situation and i say to  melissa look the war in yemen is not  going to last forever  the alliance between the military  alliance the united states and saudi  arabia  i was hoping it would end when donald  trump was elected but nope that looks  like it's going to go on forever too  whoever is president after donald trump  whether or not it's joe biden  you know because at one stage he didn't  know it was going to be joe biden or  bernie sanders or whatever but you know  it wasn't clear they're gonna continue  politics as usual the way relations to  saudi arabia were under bill clinton and  obama so it's just a matter of time  before the stock value of saudi aramco  goes up because guess what they're  selling the only thing on planet earth  that we're more addicted to than  cigarettes gasoline  gasoline it makes you feel young and  sexy and needed it's  invigorating gasoline  you know  you don't really you know you don't  really need to do a lot of advertising  for saudi gasoline you know they can  just sit back and wait for you to buy it  you know what i mean have you ever seen  a tv commercial for saudi saudi gas  nothing burns cleaner  nothing gets you to work in the morning  like saudi arabian gas  when you turn on the heat in your house  that saudi gas  put your trust in saudi aramco  the best gasoline money come by you  don't you know it's like  you got to advertise cigarettes you got  to advertise whiskey you don't need to  advertise gasoline in general  i looked at this situation in the last  few months or whatever the last year of  donald trump's presidency well yeah it  wasn't that soon before the end but last  year of donald trump's president i said  well look this is the situation for  saudi arabia as a country politically  this the situation with the war in yemen  this is the president of states  why wouldn't you invest in saudi aramco  it's totally unethical or amoral but  isn't it inevitable this is going to  make money  well there are some very intelligent  people  who work in economics in the united  states and they knew something i don't  know i didn't know sir i know it now  they knew something i didn't know there  were people who knew  that if joe biden is elected  when joe biden is elected he's way more  anti-saudi arabia than donald trump is i  had no idea i can ask did anyone know  what uh  you know  did anyone know what what what is what  his agenda was or what what joe biden  was going to do the minute he came to  office i was totally stunned with that i  had no idea now some somebody knew some  if you have your millions of dollars  involved that's something you should  research you should do really say oh  okay well what is u.s foreign policy in  saudi arabia how is that going to change  once joe biden replaces donald trump and  then you'd know the right bet to make  okay so the recommendation i made which  was only made to melissa the only person  i gave financial advice she wasn't  investing i was just talking about it  theoretically the only person i gave  that financial investment advice to is  melissa you can look up right now the  chart for saudi aramco it hasn't crashed  to zero or something it hasn't declined  but it it's stagnated it's done it's  done poorly and indeed the po that is  because the political situation the  saudis iran has can has continued to be  uh one of turmoil and uncertainty and  it's uh again u.s foreign policy changed  so  see that see that i was wrong  i lost zero dollars  nobody else  lost any money because of this economic  analysis and i was wrong in explaining  to you that i'm wrong i was wrong  i think you get the point i wasn't crazy  i wasn't irrational there was a rational  you know there were reasons why i came  to conclusion i did and the conclusion i  came to was wrong and i have the  personal integrity to say that and i  have the personal integrity to learn  from my mistakes you know because i  because i can reflect on it that way  so  this is the shocking and bizarre thing  whether you're looking at brian turner  or where they're looking at james asby  whether you're looking at  these multi-million dollar  uh vegan foundations that i open the  video criticizing or you're looking at  people who are just scraping by with a  few thousand dollars in donations who is  there out there who is  willing  to just even [ __ ] hey hey guys  what did we do with 1.4 million dollars  last year what we took in all this money  and donations  what are the actual welcomes what are we  doing wrong how can we change yeah  that's one kind of reflection on failure  what do you do well i don't know how  much money is involved with people like  james asksby i don't know much money's  involved with uh brenter i i don't know  how much money is involved with uh  ice poseidon but it's over 300 thousand  dollars uh it's been established maybe  some people say five hundred thousand  dollars half a million dollars but  whatever  no how how are we supposed to learn how  are we supposed to adapt if we don't  have that  most basic kind of uh personal integrity  uh commitment to to the truth you know  dealing with consequences  so i've got beard talk coming in from uh  from  don bauer dom look you can look at my  recent videos i have some very recent  videos with a beard i periodically grow  a beard and shave it off i feel that  whenever i start looking persian  i should get rid of the beard you know  and when you let it go too far i start  looking like sargon of a cad and i don't  mean the youtuber sargonica i mean the  ancient  you know  [Laughter]  anyway no so i uh i do i do periodically  grow a beard and periodically uh shave  it off again  yeah  well so look i know this may seem like a  shallow thing to respond to but let me  respond to this from dom too  um  uh  don bauer says  lifestyle activism has truly died  all of them have been shown to be frauds  mentally insane or fake  well look you know dom i i've been  thinking about this a lot lately so dom  you may not know you may have donated  but i just did a fundraiser because i'm  still in court with durianrider sorry  dom this might be the first you've heard  about it just say but don bauer was  involved way back in 2016. i'm going  back to thailand the court case is still  going on um  so you'll if you haven't already seen  that video dom go take a look and by all  means if you have a few bucks donate to  the fundraiser yeah i'm gonna spend all  the money just on the airplane ticket  and hotel room and things uh the lawyer  has already been paid as you might have  heard  the lawyer is not asking me for more  fees which i certainly appreciate  because i've gotten like five years of  work  sorry sorry this is a uh this is a  digression um  okay so dom just says most these people  turned out to be frauds or insane or  something okay  i remember people used to attack me by  saying  you think you would be a better leader  for the vegan movement than  your competition than these other people  you criticized  i mean here we are  in the year  2022  like  would would i have to be an egomaniac to  say back  yeah  i think i would be a better leader for  the vegan movement  than james assby  yeah i think i'm a better leader for the  vegan movement than brian turner yeah i  think i'm a better leader for the vegan  movement than durianrider and i'm sorry  people but who else  do i have to compete with  gary yourofsky  maybe mail that to 2014 like you know  some of these people just eliminated  themselves who do i have  to compete with gary francione again i  mean that guy's a burnt match whatever  he had to contribute it's already  contributed and it's done and it's over  with and i have made videos by the way  talking about both the positive and the  negative of gary francione's  contribution to veganism not i'm not  saying it's nothing you know and sorry  so dom you weren't here when we opened  the video but i talked about two very  specific examples okay  farm animal sanctuary  14 million dollars from memory  uh  farm animal rights movement  1.4 million dollars from memory we gave  you the precise figures and you can  scroll up and get them if you want the  exact amount okay  you know  and i've argued at length it's very hard  to show  palpable positive outcomes from what has  happened with these millions of dollars  per annum would i have to be  on some kind of insane ego trip to look  at this and think  i can organize a better conference  for 300 000  per year  you have a budget of more than 300 000  to organize a conference an event  a vegan event  that's going to make some difference in  the world that's far m's budget farm  animal rights movements budget you know  like  i i'm just saying like there was a time  when people would insult me this way  and a lot of the time i didn't i didn't  have false humility in response there  was some  real humility where i'd look at these  people i can remember saying well look  you know a guy like wayne siong  if you compare me to him he has some  advantages and some disadvantages like  this is way back when i was first  criticizing wednesday and i look at him  and say well  this guy doesn't understand politics and  he doesn't understand history he doesn't  know anything about mahatma gandhi  honda's gandhi what are you going to say  he's talking about gandhi and martin  luther king jr and he doesn't know what  he's talking about but i used to look at  that guy and say well  he has a certain kind of talent he has  some advantages in life i don't have and  that's why he's able to go out and you  know kind of marshal the interests of  these people and gather these donations  to my knowledge again they're above one  million dollars a year it's like well  you can see there there are some things  he's good at that maybe i'm not good at  or something so that wasn't false  humility or something in the past i'd  look at some of these people and say  well they they've got advantages  you still look at maddie burner there's  there's an i use people who say well  look these people they're doing  something right you know for veganism  and for themselves and that you know  there's some things they can do i can't  do like even  kind of really terrible people like lynn  burner even freely if you guys are  really watching my videos there were  things i gave freely credit for say look  there's some things she's doing she's  doing right  um  but yeah at this point you know  long story short  you know i i don't think it's  unreasonable at all for me to just say  directly and this is after years of  study  like you know and you know really  rolling heavy with this movement and so  on no of course you have to say you know  we're competing for  a finite amount of talent and a finite  amount of money and yeah i mean there's  just no no hesitation in mind to say of  course i'd be a better leader of course  i already am  a better influence on the vegan movement  than these other people who've competed  with me whether or not you regard them  as frauds insane or fake as as don bauer  says and look sorry so guys just to  bring it back to what i'm saying here  i don't think james aspie is a fraud  i don't think he's insane i don't think  he's fake i think he's a terrible leader  for the vegan movement i don't think the  other guy brian turner i don't think  he's a fraud i don't think he's insane i  think like it's it's not that far  all right so guys you know  uh the ultimate scarcity is  time i didn't feel this way 20 years ago  because it was 20 years ago right  but  the reality of global warming the  reality of acid oceans for example  acid oceans being the increasing acidity  of the ocean as a result of rising  carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere  this is one aspect of global warming you  know  the reality of the  ecological crisis  facing the current generation and the  next generation i think there is a very  meaningful sense in which we're running  out of time  so yeah money is scarce  you know  um  talent is scarce  time is scarce not just in the sense of  you guys don't have time to watch a  two-hour long live stream on my youtube  channel  time is scarce in terms of looking at  that great big deadline  that global warming  imposes on us all there's another kind  of deadline you guys will know about  which is that every day how many million  animals are living in a cage and having  their throats lit and suffering  terrible  unspeakable conditions how many people  are dying from needless heart attacks  and even worse health conditions that  come from  there are other kinds of deadlines that  are relapsing every day there's a body  count for both human beings and animals  every day and you guys you guys know  that yeah dom says attention is scarce  right  but when you put this  in the context of that big red deadline  of global warming we're losing the  icebergs you know we're losing the ice  mass for the north and south pole  and we're facing acid acidification and  irreversible rising carbon levels in the  atmosphere that puts these quaint little  debates about the future of the vegan  movement the immediate future in a very  different context  so what did we do  with the opportunity we had  as a generation you know  we  squandered it  watching freely  show off her ass  we  squandered it  donating money  to james aspie  so he could show off his muscles  and go swimming  diving off the side of a yacht  and show you his girlfriend  in a bikini  and his wife  in a wetsuit you know his different  girlfriends and different wives  different times  you know  that's what we did with it  and when you look at the supposedly  serious and supposedly academically  respectable leaders  facing down the climate crisis when you  look at roger hallum  for extinction rebellion i mean this  sincerely roger hallum is worse  extinction rebellion is  worse as tough as i am when i'm  criticizing the leaders within the vegan  movement even someone like paul beshear  you know people i really do despise  intellectual i think publishers and  imbecile i think joey carmstrong is an  episode i know he means well but he's a  [ __ ] idiot you kidding me  i i utter let's be real  morally and ethically i also really know  that joey carver strong is a terrible  person these are bad people they're  stupid people and they're the wrong  people  and in a word  they are leading the movement  nowhere  i wish i was not  burdened with the awareness  that this is going to have dire  long-term consequences  for the future of humanity on planet  earth  but i am burdened with precisely that  sense of purpose  that sense of urgency  and that sense of  alarm